Add Nested Model Field Validation Examples to Docs (#9735)
pydantic/pydantic: docs/examples/validators.md

    'url': 'https://errors.pydantic.dev/2.8/v/assertion_error'}]
    """
```

## Validating Nested Model Fields

Here, we demonstrate two ways to validate a field of a nested model, where the validator utilizes data from the parent model.

In this example, we construct a validator that checks that each user's password is not in a list of forbidden passwords specified by the parent model.

> One way to do this is to place the validator in the parent model, with the field data from the nested model being accessible via a parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way to do this is to place a custom validator on the outer model:
```

class User(BaseModel):
    username: str
    password: str

class Organization(BaseModel):
    forbidden_passwords: List[str]
    users: List[User]

    @model_validator(mode='after')
    def validate_user_passwords(self) -> Self:
        """Check that user password is not in forbidden list. Raise a validation error if a forbidden password is encountered."""
        for user in self.users:
            current_pw = user.password
            if current_pw in self.forbidden_passwords:
                raise ValueError(
                    f'Password {current_pw} is forbidden. Please choose another password for user {user.username}.'
                )
        return self

data = {
    'forbidden_passwords': ['123'],
    'users': [
        {'username': 'Spartacat', 'password': '123'},
        {'username': 'Iceburgh', 'password': '87'},
    ],
}
try:
    org = Organization(**data)
except ValidationError as e:
    print(e)
    """
    1 validation error for Organization
      Value error, Password 123 is forbidden. Please choose another password for user Spartacat. [type=value_error, input_value={'forbidden_passwords': [...gh', 'password': '87'}]}, input_type=dict]
    """
```

> Alternatively, a validator can be placed in the nested model class (```User```), with the forbidden passwords data from the parent model being passed in via context from ```ValidationInfo```. This is demonstrated below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, a custom validator can be used in the nested model class (`User`), with the forbidden passwords data from the parent model being passed in via validation context.
```

```py
from typing import List

from pydantic import BaseModel, ValidationError, ValidationInfo, field_validator

class User(BaseModel):
    username: str
    password: str

>     @field_validator('password', mode='after')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    @field_validator('password', mode='after')
    @classmethod
```

            raise ValueError(f'Password {password} is forbidden.')
        return password

class Organization(BaseModel):
    forbidden_passwords: List[str]
    users: List[User]

    @field_validator('forbidden_passwords', mode='after')
    @classmethod
    def add_context(cls, v: List[str], info: ValidationInfo) -> List[str]:
        if info.context is not None:
            info.context.update({'forbidden_passwords': v})
        return v

data = {
    'forbidden_passwords': ['123'],
    'users': [
        {'username': 'Spartacat', 'password': '123'},
        {'username': 'Iceburgh', 'password': '87'},
    ],
}

try:
    org = Organization.model_validate(data, context={})
except ValidationError as e:
    print(e)
    """
    1 validation error for Organization
    users.0.password
      Value error, Password 123 is forbidden. [type=value_error, input_value='123', input_type=str]
    """
```

Note that if the context property is not included in `model_validate`, then `info.context` will be `None` and the forbidden passwords list will not get added to the context in the above implementation. As such, `validate_user_passwords` would not carry out the desired password validation.

> More details about validation context can be found on [here](https://docs.pydantic.dev/latest/concepts/validators/#validation-context).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More details about validation context can be found [here](../concepts/validators/#validation-context).
```

class User(BaseModel):
    username: str
    password: str

class Organization(BaseModel):
    forbidden_passwords: List[str]
    users: List[User]

    @model_validator(mode='after')
    def validate_user_passwords(self) -> Self:
        """Check that user password is not in forbidden list. Raise a validation error if a forbidden password is encountered."""
        for user in self.users:
            current_pw = user.password
            if current_pw in self.forbidden_passwords:
                raise ValueError(
                    f'Password {current_pw} is forbidden. Please choose another password for user {user.username}.'
                )
        return self

data = {
    'forbidden_passwords': ['123'],
    'users': [
        {'username': 'Spartacat', 'password': '123'},
        {'username': 'Iceburgh', 'password': '87'},
    ],
}
try:
    org = Organization(**data)
except ValidationError as e:
    print(e)
    """
    1 validation error for Organization
      Value error, Password 123 is forbidden. Please choose another password for user Spartacat. [type=value_error, input_value={'forbidden_passwords': [...gh', 'password': '87'}]}, input_type=dict]
    """
```

> Alternatively, a custom validator can be used in the nested model class (`User`), with the forbidden passwords data from the parent model being passed in via validation context:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, a custom validator can be used in the nested model class (`User`), with the forbidden passwords data from the parent model being passed in via validation context. In general, we recommend the approach above over the context-based approach because it's better practice to use `info.context` in a read-only manner.
```

> Alternatively, a custom validator can be used in the nested model class (`User`), with the forbidden passwords data from the parent model being passed in via validation context. In general, we recommend the approach above over the context-based approach because it's better practice to use `info.context` in a read-only manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, a custom validator can be used in the nested model class (`User`), with the forbidden passwords data from the parent model being passed in via validation context.

!!! warning
    The ability to mutate the context within a validator adds a lot of power to nested validation, but can also lead to confusing or hard-to-debug code. Use this approach at your own risk!

```

            current_pw = user.password
            if current_pw in self.forbidden_passwords:
                raise ValueError(
                    f'Password {current_pw} is forbidden. Please choose another password for user {user.username}.'
                )
        return self

data = {
    'forbidden_passwords': ['123'],
    'users': [
        {'username': 'Spartacat', 'password': '123'},
        {'username': 'Iceburgh', 'password': '87'},
    ],
}
try:
    org = Organization(**data)
except ValidationError as e:
    print(e)
    """
    1 validation error for Organization
      Value error, Password 123 is forbidden. Please choose another password for user Spartacat. [type=value_error, input_value={'forbidden_passwords': [...gh', 'password': '87'}]}, input_type=dict]
    """
```

Alternatively, a custom validator can be used in the nested model class (`User`), with the forbidden passwords data from the parent model being passed in via validation context.

!!! warning
    The ability to mutate the context within a validator adds a lot of power to nested validation, but can also lead to confusing or hard-to-debug code. Use this approach at your own risk!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
